if you love dogs you might want to pay
attention here twelve powerful things
you do to your dog without realizing it
hey if you're a dog owner you surely
want your pooch to be healthy and to
live a long and happy life but you might
sometimes do things that can potentially
harm your canine companion without even
realizing it
dogs are curious adventurous and
childlike it's a beautiful thing but it
can also get them into trouble we don't
want that of course so here are some
common mistakes people unintentionally
make when it comes to taking care of
their doggies now before we dive into
this pool of knowledge remember to hit
that subscribe button this way you'll
get access to all the cool useful videos
that appear daily on the bright side of
life counting down from number 12
choosing the wrong collar first and
foremost you need to choose the right
kind of collar this decision is very
important and it's also quite personal
there are several types of collars and
you need to pick the one that best suits
the needs and character of your pup as
well as a place to attach his license a
flat collar
this is the most widespread type and you
can find them at any pet store it comes
with a buckle so that you can change the
length of the collar to your liking and
as your pup grows a breakaway collar
this type was created mostly for dogs to
spend a lot of time outside it comes
undone once there's a threat of a
choking hazard
like with fences or branches if your dog
is an inquisitive pup with a soul of an
explorer this collar will be perfect for
them
[Music]
special callers for dog training you
might not want to use these sorts of
collars if you have a very young puppy
since they're mostly designed for
behavioral training in any case
everything depends on your pets age a
harness if your dog is a polar or likes
to explore as far as it can reach adding
a harness might be a better option for
your furry friend collars can seriously
injure your pets throat if it pulls too
hard on its leash but that's not a
problem with pulling on a harness so
whether you've settled on a harness or
gone for a collar the second and just as
important step is making sure it's the
right size if a collar or harness is too
big your pooch might escape yet if it's
too small it can choke him the general
rule is that for small and medium-sized
breeds you should be able to slip one
finger between the collar or harness and
the dog's neck for large and extra-large
dogs two fingers should fit and don't
forget to check the tightness every once
in a while especially while your pup is
still growing Plus dogs just like people
can put on weight over time Hey don't
remind me number 11 leaving a dog alone
in the car never ever leave your dog
alone in the car according to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration the temperature inside a
car can increase by 20 degrees in just
10 minutes
even if the car is parked in the shade
the National Highway Traffic Safety
Association confirms this data and as
that even if the temperature outside is
a pleasantly cool 60 degrees Fahrenheit
it can skyrocket up to 110 degrees
inside a car dogs don't sweat like
people do and they can overheat much
faster than you think and since they
lack this crucial ability to cool
themselves off the consequences of
staying in a parked car can turn out
fatal signs of overheating include
drooling and panting excessively and
looking over all agitated
symptoms like vomiting diarrhea or
lethargy indicate a life-threatening
emergency in this case the dog needs to
see a vet immediately
[Music]
number 10 neglecting your dog's teeth
you know a dog's teeth need to be clean
just like people's teeth do and it's not
an issue of aesthetics here it's a
necessity that's why you should start
doing it as soon as you get your pup so
that they get used to having their teeth
brushed three times a week is okay in
the beginning or if your dog's teeth are
healthy but working up to doing it daily
is best and no giving your canine some
chew stick treats can't replace regular
brushing those minty chews don't clean
the back teeth as well as a toothbrush
can don't use toothpaste and
toothbrushes designed for people there
are special ones made just for dogs and
they're pretty different from the human
kinds you've probably never tried any
chicken or beef flavor toothpaste right
canine toothbrushes usually have smaller
heads and really soft bristles if you
don't have one you can use a kid's
toothbrush a cotton swab or even a piece
of gauze wrapped around your finger but
still you can easily get a doggy
toothbrush and toothpaste from your
local pet store or from your vet
speaking of which you need to have your
pets teeth professionally cleaned at the
vet twice a year yep just like people
now here's my secret bonus tip if you
can get your dog hooked on gnawing on
special plastic bones you get the best
of both worlds
this activity satisfies his need to chew
keeps him busy while discouraging
destructive chomping and cleans your
doggies teeth automatically my 9 year
old pal Riley has never needed
professional cleaning due to this fun
chewing habit he started as a puppy his
vet is astonished at his pearly whites
at every check-up to my great joy and I
save a lot of money that way number 9
letting your dog eat everything
you should never feed human food your
dog it's way too salty
too spicy and too fatty for them in fact
most dishes you eat are severely toxic
for them take candy chewing gum baked
goods and even some diet foods they
contain a special sweetener called
xylitol if your dog ingests it their
blood sugar may drop and this can lead
to liver failure
avocados in turn contain person this
toxic can cause severe vomiting and
diarrhea in your pooch well not to be
Captain Obvious here but never give your
dog alcohol it affects a canines liver
and brain much more easily than it does
a human's alcohol and a dog system can
lead to diarrhea vomiting troubles with
breathing and coordination and in the
worst cases coma and death the full list
of products that can cause serious
problems in your pets health is miles
long still some of the main ones include
coffee tea and other caffeinated drinks
grapes and raisins milk and other dairy
products fatty bones and trimmings
peaches plums and persimmons hey they
all start with P raw eggs milk and fish
salty and sugary foods and of course the
infamous chocolate you also shouldn't
give your dog any table scraps while
you're having a meal this teaches
undesirable begging habits oh please
could have sabor and dogs are in fact
incredibly quick learners when it comes
to things they're not allowed to do
number eight bringing puppies to a dog
park dogs are very social but think
twice before taking a small puppy to a
dog park to begin with dogs can
sometimes be passive carriers of
diseases secondly grown-up dogs
especially large ones can be incredibly
rough when playing and running around
they may inadvertently scare or even
accidentally hurt your little pup number
seven using physical punishment
yes dogs do need training their owners
need it even more but physical
punishment is never okay first of all
it's just outright animal abuse plus it
doesn't work and actually does the
opposite of what you want
it makes your dog scared of you reward
based training is much more effective
than physical discipline and here's why
while reward-based training helps build
trust between a dog in his human
physical punishment breeds distrust of
humans in general reward-based training
encourages a dog to behave in a desired
way but when a dog is physically
punished it may try to hide start
urinating uncontrollably and freeze in
submission because it's scared to death
reward based training helps a dog learn
and perform a desired behavior however
when an owner uses physical punishment a
dog can concentrate only on one thought
this hurts and I don't like it think
about it do you like getting hit
didn't think so you like rewards duh
see dogs are no different than you so if
your dog does things you'd prefer he
didn't sign them up for obedience school
which is as much for teaching you as it
is for the dog the very best time to do
this is when they are puppies when the
concrete hasn't hardened yet and you can
more easily install positive habits and
behaviors number 6 providing too little
stimulation just like you dogs need
constant mental and physical stimulation
especially working breeds
which is why regular walking is a must
if you're thinking about getting a dog
consider whether or not you'll be able
to provide this necessity walks not only
provide dogs with much-needed exercise
the exposure puffs to different sounds
and smells this sensory stimulation in
turn makes their brain work better if
dogs don't get enough stimulation
they'll simply try to entertain
themselves this unfortunately for owners
usually comes in the form of digging
chewing or tearing things up
number-5 knott securing your dog in the
car
people use seatbelts kids use car seats
so why would the case be any different
for your dog if you don't secure your
dog in the car and you end up in an
accident your pet can get seriously
injured or even killed you've got tons
of options when it comes to canine car
safety there are harness seatbelts
zipline harnesses different types of
carriers and doggy ejection seats woohoo
just kidding just find the one that
suits your needs
number four yelling when your dog does
something wrong yelling is another thing
you should never consider when
disciplining a dog just like physical
punishment it doesn't work
they don't understand no so it only
freaks your dog out especially when
you're ticked off about something that
happened a while ago in this case your
dog won't only be scared
it'll be confused too number three
skipping flea tick and worming treatment
preventive treatment against parasites
is crucial when you're a dog owner some
people say you can take a break from
flea tick and heartworm medicine in
winter if you live in a cold climate but
you really should discuss it with your
veterinarian it's always better to be
safe than sorry number two
leaving harmful objects around well dogs
are adventurous and this gets them into
all sorts of trouble dog proof your
house by putting away anything your pet
can chew or swallow things like
medications screws and nails magnets
coins and batteries should never be
within your pets reach socks seem to be
every dog's favorite pulling toy but
keep in mind that if a pooch swallows
one it can get stuck in their throat
number one neglecting breed specific
health issues now some breeds require
specific grooming or have a
predisposition to certain health issues
always do your research before you get a
pet so that you'll know how to best take
care of it and what problems to look out
for
so if you're a dog owner or simply a dog
lover then give this video a like and
share it with all the dog people you
know and if you have